We're not absolutely sure how my parents heard about the Kindertransport
because they weren't about, but we think that the Jewish community must have used
youngsters like Boy Scouts to go to the homes of families where they knew they were
children and explained to them that this opportunity existed. And we actually have
the application forms, two. One for me and shortly after that one for both my
sister and myself. You'll know that there were committees formed all over the country here,
both Jewish ones and non-Jewish, to try and find places for these children to go
because the government had said they would accept 10,000 unaccompanied Jewish children.
And so my parents were prepared to send us to this country convinced that they would be following.
So we were given a place and we left on the 10th of January for England.
Really, that's a very dramatic story. My parents, we were allowed one piece of luggage each
and they took us to the Western Railway Station in the evening, it was always in the evening.
And they were very sensible, they said their goodbyes and were just about to leave.
But I know that a lot of people were very upset and so we didn't snatch their children back,
they just couldn't let them go. But we got into a compartment which was fairly full of children and
between us the older ones decided that the little ones would go on a luggage rack which was made of
netting, they would be more comfortable up there. So we put my little sister up there and she was
promptly sick, which was actually very helpful because the next half hour I was very busy and
my parents said look after your sister, we must go now and we'll follow you soon, bye bye and off
they went, which was very sensible. And indeed they did follow eventually. Now the journey started
off with rumours going down the train that soon when we got to the border the Nazis would come and
inspect our papers and our luggage if they found anything that we shouldn't have had, we might get
sent back or there might be trouble. And there weren't rumours, it was true. And the Manstown
number was a little out of about 11 whose father had given him the family gold watch,
Fob watch and he got very panicky in case the Nazis found that. So he dropped it into the slit of a
ventilator and they didn't find it. We crossed the border having been examined and we all
breathed a big sigh of relief because it was very frightening. And of course from that moment onwards
he was fiddling around trying to get the watch out and never did. And I remember with all the
wisdom of my ten and a half years saying to him, look it's only a watch, your father will be very
happy that you survived, that he was most disgusted. I think the reason he had the watch was partly as a
family heirloom but partly his father would have thought maybe he can sell it and maybe live on.
There are pictures also of children who came with a violin, again partly perhaps to sell, partly to make a nipping.